High in this video I want to talk about how we can pick random elements from a sequence like a list
or a tuple.
So how would we go about doing that.
Well if you come from other programming languages like for example Java your approach might be the following.
And let's just try it out and I'll show you.
So it's impled the random library will need that.
And then what we're going to do is create a simple list let's say 10 20 30 40 50 and now we want to
pick a random element from that list.
Well we know that the indices are numbers from 0 up to Abbadon including length of L.
What we can do because we know that there's a random and or a Rande range our function in the random
model is we can essentially generate a random index and then we retrieve the elements of the list by
index.
So let's see how we would do that if it's done in two steps.
So we'll do random index equals random dot random range.
And so by lower bound is zero I'm not going to specify on my upper bound is going to be the length of
L.
Now Rand range unlike Rand It does not include the upper limit.
Right.
So this will never actually return a integer equal to length of L which is good because we don't right.
We want the integer to be random between 0 the first position and the length of L minus 1 which is the
last index.
OK now we have this random index.
And now we can retrieve the random value from the list.
We can just say L and then square brackets.
Random index.
And so we get that if we run this multiple times we get different values coming back.
OK.
So that's certainly one way of doing it.
What you'll notice that if we write this together let's say I want to create a list of five random elements
from L and let me switch now my list to something a little bit bigger.
So I'm going to make a list out of a range.
So I'll take a range with a thousand elements in it and if we print l it has thousand elements right.
From 0 to 9 9 9 9 9 9 the last one.
OK.
Get rid of that.
So now let's go ahead and pick and create a list that has five elements that are five random elements
from that list.
So the way we would do it is maybe something like this randoms equals empty list and then for that in
range of 5 so we're not interested in the index as we're iterating through a range.
And what we want to do what we want to retrieve something in the list what something.
Well that random index so random dupped random range lenth of L..
And what are we going to do.
We're going to append that to our randoms.
And then finally we're going to print randoms.
So there we go.
And if we execute this you know multiple times we get different random choices.
So that's fine.
That certainly works.
But this is not Pythonic.
There's a better way to do this.
There's a more idiomatic way to do this and that's if we know that the random module has a choice method
the choice method is very simple.
You do random dot choice and you pass it a sequence and it will return a random element from that sequence.
It's doing a random choice.
So now let's rewrite this using them and see what it looks like.
We don't have to do all this gobbledygook here.
We can just say random top choice L and we get the same thing.
We run this multiple times as you can see we get different choices every time.
So this is a more pythonic way of doing it.
It's very clear here what's going on.
We're just choosing an arbitrary element a random element of L here.
We're doing the same thing but you can see the code is more complex.
It's not as expressive.
But there's still one thing going on here is that I have to do this loop and this append to randoms
and so on.
That's kind of a pain I don't like that.
So there's another way we could do this.
And let me show you we could use a list comprehension instead we could say randoms equals and you will
just say random Goch choice of L for that's in range let's say fine.
OK.
Because we want five.
So again I'm not interested in that so I'm basically just rewriting this year using a comprehension
that's already one step better.
That's more pythonic.
And we can print the randoms actually all printed on the same block of code so we can run it multiple
times.
And as you can see we get the same result.
So this already is better.
Right.
We've replaced these three lines of code right here with just this single line over here.
Now this isn't about writing more concise code.
And you know shorter code and so on because you can fall into that trap where you start writing code
and you try and make it as compact as possible and you're just muddling things up because it now becomes
difficult to read and difficult to understand.
This is more expressive.
It's shorter Yes but it's also more expressive.
You can it's very easy to tell very quickly what's going on here.
I'm creating a list each element of the list is a random choice of L and I'm repeating this five times.
OK.
Much more expressive.
But there's a better way to do this.
And we have to use the choices function in the random module.
So choices walks very simply.
It basically allows you to do multiple choices from your list from your sequence.
It has some other functionality as well that we'll get into in a second.
So in order to do the same thing I would write it this way I would say randomized equals random dots
choices.
L And one of the arguments that we can pass to choices is the number of choices we want to make and
it's a key word only parameter.
In this case I want to make it the same I want five right and we'll print randomly out as well.
And there we go.
We have you know the same results we're getting five random choices out of our list.
L So this is again far more concise far more readable.
So we went from this approach Well actually we went from this approach over here down to this.
Right.
And let me let me copy and paste and put them together so you can see the difference.
OK.
So here's one way of doing it.
And here's another way of doing the same thing.
So more pythonic.
A lot easier to understand what's going on.
Now the thing that's interesting about choices because if you think about how we did it here or even
here we could have elements repeated in other words.
It's called a replacement's a selection with replacement.
In other words if we picked Let's say you know 10 out of this range we may pick it again.
Let me show you an example of what I mean by that.
Let's take a smaller list let's say l equals 1 2 3 4 K.
And now let's go ahead and create our randoms using I'm not going to use that big horrible loop.
I'm going to pick it using this right which was the same thing.
So we're going to do that.
And what's happening here is that I can every time I'm making a new random choice out of the list.
So if I do this let's say 10 times and then we're going to print random Zalk.
And as you can see we have elements that are repeated to the pick more than once one got picked more
than once and so on.
The same thing with choices even though it seems like this is a single command.
It is doing it with replacement.
So if I run this code now on that you'll see that I'm also getting.
And let's make it 10.
So we have a few more to work with.
But you can see that again I'm getting repeated choices.
So this is called a selection with replacement.
In other words every time it picks a new element when it's building this list of 10 random elements
it can reuse any existing one.
It's not like it removes it from the batch and says Well I picked it once.
I can't use it anymore.
So what's obviously it.
So what happens is that we can actually make our Random selection larger than the actual initial population
that we're working with.
Right.
We picked 10 random choices out of four elements.
Same thing here we picked 10 random choices out of four elements.
So let me show you something.
Let's start with another list let's say l equals a b and c
like OK.
So we have this list and let's go ahead and generate 10 random choices of length 5.
So we're going to use a loop for that in range 10 so we're going to repeat this 10 times and we're going
to print random choices list and then we'll make Arcangel to five.
OK.
So here's what we get.
As you can see we basically have these lists of five elements and we just repeated that 10 times and
you can see they repeat right.
See a repeat of twice in here.
See repeated twice in here.
And so on.
So one of the things that's interesting with the choices is that we can actually give a weight to how
often we want things to come up in the in the selection over here.
And that's why I'm doing it 10 times so we can kind of see a pattern emerging and we do that by specifying
the weights.
So here let me go ahead and call it weights and let's say that I want the first element to be picked
more often than the other ones by default.
It's basically doing weights of 1 1 and 1.
So it's going to try and evenly spread out and we'll do a frequency analysis on that in a second.
But basically it gives even weights to all the elements in the list.
But let's say that I don't want that let's say that I want to generate random selections where a is
going to come up more frequently.
How much more frequently.
Well relatively speaking 10 compared to one and compared to one out of 12.
Right so 10 out of 12 1 out of 12 1 out of 12 times expect 8 to show up.
That's what I want to do.
So I set my weights and now I'm going to take the same piece of code right here but now I'm going to
specify that the weights is going to be weights.
OK.
And if we do this you'll notice now there's kind of a difference in the pattern.
It's kind of easy to see just by eyeballing it but you can see AA shows up a lot more frequently now.
OK.
You can see it.
So I really you know skewed it quite a bit.
So let's go ahead and count the frequency of those things.
So what I'm going to do is the following.
I could use the counters.
Remember I showed you that in the last video I could use the count as object but I'm not going to do
that.
I'm just going to write it myself because I also want to bring back the rather the frequency as well
as a percentage.
I don't want just the count because then I have to kind of eyeball it and.
So I'm going to create a name top hole for a frequency can cut type of record which is going to count
and frequency and then I'm going to define this creek quinsy counts and I'm going to pass it a list
let's call it ls t.
And the first thing I need to do is find the length of that list.
So I need to know how many elements are in that list and then what am I going to do.
I'm going to return
the frequency of the elements in this list.
So but I want to use a dictionary where I'm going to have the key is going to be the element of the
list.
And then next I'm going to want to have the total count and then the frequency as a relative percentage.
So I'm going to iterate K in the router we already solved in the set.
So I'm going to convert LSD to a set just so that I get all the unique elements that are in that list
and then that's going to be my key.
And then what do I do for every key I'm going to create a dictionary where the key is going to be that
key.
And then I need to do what I need to find.
The list dupped on LSD sorry dot count.
I want to know how many times that may occur in that list but I'm going to create this as a name to
all.
So I'm going to call this for you.
Q And I just noticed my typo over here.
That's not me that's not Fred.
I.
Q Sogard frequency that's going to be the first item it's going to be the count.
And then I want the actual frequency itself which is going to be 100 times and it's going to be l s
t that counts.
Cain divided by total.
Right.
We are with two lines that we can see what's going on.
For k in that set
and what I do wrong here.
I need to close off my table.
So now this will return basically you know a nice list dictionary I should say of the frequency of each
element and not in a particular list that's passed to it.
So let's try it on let's say frequency counts random dot choices.
We'll take it from a list L and let's say we do this a thousand times.
OK.
So we're going to pick a thousand random elements from this list L which remember is just the three
characters A B and C.
So we're going to pick a thousand elements so there's going to be replacement obviously and then I want
to know how you know what's the distribution.
And here I would expect a pretty even distribution.
And as you can see it's pretty even 30 to 36 31.
Again the sample size is pretty small.
We can make it a lot bigger let's say 100000 and we get now much you know much more even uniform kind
of distribution.
But now let's go ahead and use those weights.
And this is really why I wanted to bring it out this way and so we can see those frequencies.
We're going to use these weights over here 10 1 1.
So we've waited eight 10 times more than the others.
Right.
Let's go ahead and set the weights a little differently.
Let's set it to 8 1 1 because then we kind of know what the relative frequencies should be.
We expect that a should occur eight out of 10 times because we have 8 and 1 and 1 so 8 9 10 8 out of
10 times B should be 1 out of 10 times c should be 1 out of 10 times.
So if we use this we can just take this same code again.
And now we have to in addition specify the weights we can do that.
And as you can see here is what we expected.
A came up about 80 percent of the time became Alph 10 percent of the time.
C came out 10 percent of the time.
If we changed the weights to something else let's say we change it to 7 1 and 2.
Right then what can we expect.
Well we can expect that is going to be a frequency of 70 percent.
See will have a frequency of 20 percent and 1 and B will have a frequency of 10 percent.
And indeed that's what we get 70 10 and 20.
There's another way that you can specify the weights and what you do is you set up cumulative weights.
So instead of doing 8 1 1 you'd say 8 9 10 right.
Or instead of saying 7 1 2 you would say 7 8 10.
It's kind of the same thing.
You just have cumulative weights.
And then here in order to do this you would not specify weights you would say cumulative weights equals
cumulative weights and you get prox you know you get the same thing 70 10 and 20.
So what I want to show you next is kind of a practical example of where we might use something like
random choices with these weights.
I'm sure you have other use cases that you'll come up with but for now here's one that I thought would
be pretty good.
Let's say that we want to time the difference in our code between doing a and you know if we're going
to do a division and we want to guard against dividing by zero while there's two ways about it we can
either do an if statement to check if the denominator is 0 before we attempt during the division.
That's the look before you leap kind of approach to you know exception handling and the other one is
the one that's easier to ask forgiveness than permission which has to do the division and then catch
it if you want to do something with that.
Just cash cash there.
Do a try except essentially.
And some people there are always debates about well you know this is faster and this is more readable
in general in Python.
We prefer the you know ask the easier to ask forgiveness than permission.
We don't do this look before you leap and I'll get into that discussion and a lot more detail.
When we look at exception handling.
But for now let's just take a quick look at the performance and let's see if there's a real difference
in the performance.
And of course the difference in performance will really only be if you're doing some kind of loop you
know hundreds of millions of times then those very small differences will start to add up.
And if you find that that's a bottleneck in your application then you're going to want to do some optimization
but don't start optimizing until you actually need to optimize.
Don't optimize ahead of time because you don't know where your bottlenecks where your performance bottlenecks
are going to be.
So let's do this very simply.
And actually before we do that I'm going to ask do those very rough.
So from time I'm going to import Tofte count or we're going to need the Kauffman's counting from the
time Maggio next.
I want to create and I'm going to do my random dot seed 0.
I just want to make sure that I don't have variability there and I'm going to call those denominators.
Dean.
Dean now men need tools.
OK I'm going to call this something else.
I'm going to call this Dean arms because I just can't type this random dark choices.
And what are we going to do.
Well I want to have a random selection of zero and non-zero denominators so I'm going to pick from just
zero on one and I'm going to pick it a million times actually 10 million times.
OK.
So this is going to generate a list of random zeros and ones.
Next what I want to do is I want to basically time division and I'm going to test using an if statement
to make sure the denominator is not zero.
So let's go ahead and stouts and let's read our performance counters.
Then I'm going to say for d n d Nom's.
Now I'm going to gownd using an if statement if D is equal to zero then I'm just going to continue.
I'm not going to do the rest of this loop.
Else I'm going to just calculate the value k so I'm not going to store into a variable I don't need
to time that.
And then I'm going to look at my performance counter again to see what it is that's my end time.
And then I'm going to print.
I'm going to use an F string and we're going to say average elapsed time.
Well what's the average elapsed time it's and minus gestalt k.
But the end minus.
I'm going to divide by the number of loops that I had to get an average by loop by iteration.
I should say so I'm going to divide that by the length of the denominators.
And maybe I'll print the salts to zero point fifteen right after the decimal point.
So there we go.
This is how long it took to run about that much.
Now let's go ahead and do the same piece of code so I'm going to copy paste but here I'm not going to
do an if statement.
I'm going to do a try.
So I'm going to say try and what do I want to try.
So now I'm just going to do it.
So I'm not asking for permission right.
This is what this look before you leap is I'm asking for permission saying May I divide by the and the
should be D by the way now denominator for it's rerun.
That's
And here I'm going to do it right away.
I'm just going to do it.
What I'm going to catch up to I'm going to catch the 0 division error and if that's the case then I'm
just going to continue.
Right.
I don't need to do anything.
In fact I'm suppressing the error here.
Not a bad not not a good idea.
You know don't suppress errors.
You know like this way unless there's a good reason you don't want to just make things silent in this
case I do because I want to time the difference.
And then this is all the same thing.
OK.
Let's go ahead and run that and seems to be taking substantially longer.
And if we look at the numbers here basically it looked like it ran about three times slower.
So at this point you might be saying Wow I'm never going to use try except I'm never going to use that
approach.
But you have to remember that your exceptions are not things that happen necessarily all the time.
Exceptions are that right.
Normally I mean if you expect the denominator is always going to be zero.
Well you're not going to try and divide by that.
But if you expect that your denominator is going to be non-zero.
Most of the time then what happens.
Right.
That's going to change the calculus maybe.
And so what I want to do now is I want to rerun all this code but I want to change this and instead
of having an evenly split sample where I've got an equal number proximately of zeros and ones I want
to skew it I'm going to say no no the zeros or the zero the numbers only going to happen that's a 10
percent of the time.
So I would say weights equals nine Come one to one come in nine because I want my ones to appear about
90 percent of the time and there's only 10 percent of the time.
So now I've got a different and again let me go ahead and say random dog see it it doesn't actually
matter in this case.
Art now I've got a different distribution of zeros and ones my ones are going to be distributed much
more.
You know are going to be distributed are going to be present far more often than the zeros.
And so now let's go ahead and run the same piece of code again and let's see what we get.
OK.
So again we get that and we need now to run this one for comparison purposes.
And you know what I'm going to do.
I'm going to take out the formatting here.
It's actually harder to read with that.
So for me go ahead and do this.
OK.
So let's run this again.
And let's run this one again.
Now as you can see the timing is much closer now 1.3 one one point thirty five it's negligible.
So whereas here we might have thought and here that me again.
Let's rerun this and I'm going to rerun this without the formatting.
Well let's run those Let's run those.
All right.
So here it looked like this was three times slower.
Like was you know big deal.
Here it's about the same so.
The look before you leap is not something that you should necessarily do because you're concerned about
performance.
It becomes a performance issue.
If the exception happens far more often than the you know than was real.
So be careful with that.
And if you want to see what it looks like when you have really skewed towards it happens most of the
time the exception happens most of the time.
Let's let's reverse this.
Let's do it this way.
And now let's run again.
So now my zeros are happening a lot more often.
So we run loose.
How long does it take that much.
And if we were on this one How long does it take takes that
takes this amount.
Yes.
So as you can see this is now you know almost a factor of 10 an order of 10 slower.
But again if you're writing code and this happens to be you know the most common thing where it mostly
is going to create an exception maybe you need to relook at your code and relook at how you're handling
things.
Maybe that's not the best approach in the first place.
All right.
Thanks for watching.